---
source_url: "https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/open_actions/"
title: "Scripting the mouse click - kitty"
crawl_date: "2025-11-16T14:49:23.794816Z"
selector: "article"
---

# Scripting the mouse click - kitty

# Scripting the mouse click[¶](#scripting-the-mouse-click "Link to this heading")

*kitty* has support for [terminal hyperlinks](../glossary/#term-hyperlinks). These are
generated by many terminal programs, such as `ls`, `gcc`, `systemd`,
[mcat](../integrations/#tool-mcat), etc. You can customize exactly what happens when clicking on
these hyperlinks in *kitty*.

You can tell kitty to take arbitrarily many, complex actions when a link is
clicked. Let us illustrate with some examples, first. Create the file
`~/.config/kitty/open-actions.conf` with the following:

```
# Open any image in the full kitty window by clicking on it
protocol file
mime image/*
action launch --type=overlay kitten icat --hold -- ${FILE_PATH}
```

Now, run `ls --hyperlink=auto` in kitty and click on the filename of an
image, holding down `ctrl`+`shift`. It will be opened over the current
window. Press any key to close it.

Note

The **ls** comes with macOS does not support hyperlink, you need to
install [GNU Coreutils](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/). If you
install it via [Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/coreutils), it
will be **gls**.

Each entry in `open-actions.conf` consists of one or more
[Matching criteria](#matching-criteria), such as `protocol` and `mime` and one or more
`action` entries. In the example above kitty uses the [launch](../launch/)
action which can be used to run external programs. Entries are separated by
blank lines.

Actions are very powerful, anything that you can map to a key combination in
`kitty.conf` can be used as an action. You can specify more than one
action per entry if you like, for example:

```
# Tail a log file (*.log) in a new OS Window and reduce its font size
protocol file
ext log
action launch --title ${FILE} --type=os-window tail -f -- ${FILE_PATH}
action change_font_size current -2
```

In the launch specification you can expand environment variables, as shown in
the examples above. In addition to regular environment variables, there are
some special variables, documented below:

`URL`
:   The full URL being opened

`FILE_PATH`
:   The path portion of the URL (unquoted)

`FILE`
:   The file portion of the path of the URL (unquoted)

`FRAGMENT`
:   The fragment (unquoted), if any of the URL or the empty string.

`NETLOC`
:   The net location aka hostname (unquoted), if any of the URL or the empty string.

`URL_PATH`
:   The path, query and fragment portions of the URL, without any
    unquoting.

`EDITOR`
:   The terminal based text editor. The configured [`editor`](../conf/#opt-kitty.editor) in
    `kitty.conf` is preferred.

`SHELL`
:   The path to the shell. The configured [`shell`](../conf/#opt-kitty.shell) in `kitty.conf` is
    preferred, without arguments.

Note

You can use the [`action_alias`](../conf/#opt-kitty.action_alias) option just as in `kitty.conf` to
define aliases for frequently used actions.

## Matching criteria[¶](#matching-criteria "Link to this heading")

An entry in `open-actions.conf` must have one or more matching criteria.
URLs that match all criteria for an entry will trigger that entry’s actions.
Processing stops at the first matching entry, so put more specific matching
criteria at the start of the list. Entries in the file are separated by blank
lines. The various available criteria are:

`protocol`
:   A comma separated list of protocols, for example: `http, https`. If
    absent, there is no constraint on protocol.

`url`
:   A regular expression that must match against the entire (unquoted) URL

`fragment_matches`
:   A regular expression that must match against the fragment (part after #) in
    the URL

`mime`
:   A comma separated list of MIME types, for example: `text/*, image/*,
    application/pdf`. You can add MIME types to kitty by creating a file named
    `mime.types` in the [kitty configuration directory](../conf/#confloc).
    Useful if your system MIME database does not have definitions you need. This
    file is in the standard format of one definition per line, like:
    `text/plain rst md`. Note that the MIME type for directories is
    `inode/directory`. MIME types are detected based on file extension, not
    file contents.

`ext`
:   A comma separated list of file extensions, for example: `jpeg, tar.gz`

`file`
:   A shell glob pattern that must match the filename, for example:
    `image-??.png`

## Scripting the opening of files with kitty[¶](#scripting-the-opening-of-files-with-kitty "Link to this heading")

On macOS you can use Open With in Finder or drag and drop files and
URLs onto the kitty dock icon to open them with kitty. Similarly on Linux, you
can associate certain files types to open in kitty. The default actions are:

* Open text files in your editor and images using the icat kitten.
* Run shell scripts in a shell
* Open SSH urls using the ssh command

These actions can also be executed from the command line by running:

```
kitty +open file_or_url another_url ...

# macOS only
open -a kitty.app file_or_url another_url ...
```

Since macOS lacks an official interface to set default URL scheme handlers,
kitty has a command you can use for it. The first argument for is the URL
scheme, and the second optional argument is the bundle id of the app, which
defaults to kitty, if not specified. For example:

```
# Set kitty as the handler for ssh:// URLs
kitty +runpy 'from kitty.fast_data_types import cocoa_set_url_handler; import sys; cocoa_set_url_handler(*sys.argv[1:]); print("OK")' ssh
# Set someapp as the handler for xyz:// URLs
kitty +runpy 'from kitty.fast_data_types import cocoa_set_url_handler; import sys; cocoa_set_url_handler(*sys.argv[1:]); print("OK")' xyz someapp.bundle.identifier
```

You can customize these actions by creating a `launch-actions.conf` file
in the [kitty config directory](../conf/#confloc), just like the
`open-actions.conf` file above. For example:

```
# Open script files. Change confirm-always to confirm-never or confirm-if-needed to
# disable confirmation for all or executable files respectively.
protocol file
ext sh,command,tool
action launch --hold --type=os-window kitten __shebang__ confirm-always $FILE_PATH $SHELL

# Open shell specific script files
protocol file
ext fish,bash,zsh
action launch --hold --type=os-window kitten __shebang__ confirm-always $FILE_PATH __ext__

# Open directories
protocol file
mime inode/directory
action launch --type=os-window --cwd -- $FILE_PATH

# Open executable file. Remove kitten __confirm_and_run_exe__ to execute
# without confirmation.
protocol file
mime inode/executable,application/vnd.microsoft.portable-executable
action launch --hold --type=os-window -- kitten __confirm_and_run_exe__ $FILE_PATH

# Open text files without fragments in the editor
protocol file
mime text/*
action launch --type=os-window -- $EDITOR -- $FILE_PATH

# Open image files with icat
protocol file
mime image/*
action launch --type=os-window kitten icat --hold -- $FILE_PATH

# Open ssh URLs with ssh command
protocol ssh
action launch --type=os-window ssh -- $URL
```