# wiki.hypr.land llms.txt

> This page documents the basics of making your own Hyprland plugin from scratch.
How do plugins work? Plugins are basically dynamic objects loaded by Hyprland. They have (almost) full access to every part of Hyprland’s internal process, and as such, can modify and change way more than a script.
Prerequisites In order to write a Hyprland plugin, you will need:
Knowledge of C++ The ability to read A rough understanding of the Hyprland internals (you can learn this alongside your development work) Making your first plugin Open your favorite code editor.

- [Getting started – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/Development/Getting-Started/): This page documents the basics of making your own Hyprland plugin from scratch.
How do plugins work? Plugins are basically dynamic objects loaded by Hyprland. They have (almost) full access to every part of Hyprland’s internal process, and as such, can modify and change way more than a script.
Prerequisites In order to write a Hyprland plugin, you will need:
Knowledge of C++ The ability to read A rough understanding of the Hyprland internals (you can learn this alongside your development work) Making your first plugin Open your favorite code editor.
- [Hyprland on NixOS – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Hyprland-on-NixOS/): The NixOS module enables critical components needed to run Hyprland properly, such as polkit, xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland, graphics drivers, fonts, dconf, xwayland, and adding a proper Desktop Entry to your Display Manager.
Make sure to check out the options of the NixOS module.
Warning
- [hyprpaper – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprpaper/): hyprpaper is a fast, IPC-controlled wallpaper utility for Hyprland.
Installation Arch pacman -S hyprpaper openSUSE zypper install hyprpaper Fedora sudo dnf install hyprpaper Manual Dependencies The development files of these packages need to be installed on the system for hyprpaper to build correctly. (Development packages are usually suffixed with -dev or -devel in most distros’ repos).
- [Installation – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Getting-Started/Installation/): Warning
Hyprland is not meant to be a full and user-friendly Desktop Environment. In a nutshell, it’s a set of tools to allow you to create your own Desktop Environment.
- [Must have – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Must-have/): This page documents software that is strongly recommended to have running for a smooth Hyprland experience.
DEs like Plasma or GNOME will take care of this automatically. Hyprland will not, as you might want to use something else.
A notification daemon Starting method: Automatically, via D-Bus activation, when a notification is emitted. Alternatively, exec-once entry inside hyprland.conf can be used. The latter might be preferable, if there are several notification daemons installed on your system.
- [Start – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Start/): The config is located in $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hypr/hyprland.conf. In most cases, that maps to ~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf.
You can tell Hyprland to use a specific configuration file by using the --config (or -c) argument.
Hyprland will automatically generate an example config for you if you don’t have one. You can find an example config here.
By removing the line containing autogenerated=1 you’ll remove the yellow warning.
The config is reloaded the moment you save it. However, you can use hyprctl reload to reload the config manually.
- [Using plugins – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/Using-Plugins/): This page will tell you how to use plugins.
Disclaimers Warning
Plugins are written in C++ and will run as a part of Hyprland.
Make sure to always read the source code of the plugins you are going to use and to trust the source.
Writing a plugin to wipe your computer is easy.
- [Version selector ⚙️ – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/version-selector/): Select your preferred wiki version below:
Latest Git v0.52.0 v0.51.0 v0.50.0 v0.49.0 v0.48.0 v0.47.0 v0.46.2 v0.46.1 v0.46.0 v0.45.2 v0.45.1 v0.45.0 v0.44.1 v0.44.0 v0.43.0 v0.42.0 v0.41.2 v0.41.1 v0.41.0 v0.40.0 v0.39.0 v0.38.0 v0.37.0 v0.36.0 v0.35.0 v0.34.0 v0.33.1 v0.33.0 v0.32.2 v0.32.1 v0.32.0 v0.31.0 v0.30.0 v0.29.1 v0.29.0 v0.28.0 v0.27.2 v0.27.1 v0.27.0 v0.26.0 v0.25.0 v0.24.1 v0.24.0 v0.23.0beta v0.22.0beta v0.21.0beta v0.20.1beta v0.20.0beta v0.19.2beta v0.19.1beta v0.19.0beta v0.18.0beta v0.17.0beta v0.16.0beta
- [Development – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/Development/): This section describes the process of developing plugins for Hyprland. It is indented to be read by developers, not end users.
Getting started Plugin guidelines Event list Advanced
- [Getting Started – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Getting-Started/): If you are coming to Hyprland for the first time, read the Installation page.
After you’ve installed Hyprland, read the Master tutorial.
- [Hyprland on Home Manager – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Hyprland-on-Home-Manager/): For a list of available options, check the Home Manager options.
Warning
Required:
NixOS Module: enables critical components needed to run Hyprland properly.
Without this, you may have issues with missing session files in your Display Manager. Optional:
- [hyprpicker – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprpicker/): hyprpicker is a neat utility for picking a color from your screen on Hyprland.
Configuration Doesn’t require configuration, only launch flags:
flag description args -a / --autocopy Automatically copies the output to the clipboard (requires wl-clipboard) none -f / --format= Specifies the output format cmyk / hex / rgb / hsl / hsv -n / --no-fancy Disables the “fancy” (aka. colored) outputting none -h / --help Shows the help message none -r / --render-inactive Render (freeze) inactive displays none -z / --no-zoom Disable the zoom lens none -q / --quiet Disable most logs (leaves errors) none -v / --verbose Enable more logs none -t / --no-fractional Disable fractional scaling support none -d / --disable-hex-preview Disable live preview of Hex code none -l / --lowercase-hex Outputs the hexcode in lowercase none -V / --version Print version info none
- [Master tutorial – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Getting-Started/Master-Tutorial/): If you are coming to Hyprland for the first time, this is the main tutorial to read.
This tutorial covers everything you need to get things going. It links to other pages where necessary.
Install Hyprland See Installation and come back here once you have successfully installed Hyprland.
Install kitty (default terminal emulator). This is available in most distros' repositories.
Nvidia? Note
- [Plugin guidelines – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/Development/Plugin-Guidelines/): This page documents the recommended guidelines for making a stable and neat plugin.
Making your plugin compatible with hyprpm In order for your plugin to be installable by hyprpm, you need a manifest.
hyprpm will parse hyprload manifests just fine, but it’s recommended to use the more powerful hyprpm manifest.
Make a file in the root of your repository called hyprpm.toml.
Repository metadata At the beginning, put some metadata about your plugin:
- [Status bars – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Status-Bars/): Simple status bars Typically you’ll be able to configure the order and style of widgets with little to no coding skill.
Waybar Waybar is a GTK status bar made specifically for wlroots compositors and supports Hyprland by default. To use it, it’s recommended to use your distro’s package.
To start configuring, copy the configuration files from /etc/xdg/waybar/ into ~/.config/waybar/.
To use the workspaces module, replace all the occurrences of sway/workspaces with hyprland/workspaces. Additionally replace all occurrences of sway/mode with hyprland/submap
- [Variables – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Variables/): For basic syntax info, see Configuring Hyprland.
This page documents all the “options” of Hyprland. For binds, monitors, animations, etc. see the sidebar. For anything else, see Keywords.
Please keep in mind some options that are layout-specific will be documented in the layout pages and not here. (See the Sidebar for Dwindle and Master layouts)
Variable types type description int integer bool boolean, true or false (yes or no, on or off, 0 or 1) - any numerical value that is not 0 or 1 will cause undefined behavior. float floating point number color color (see hint below for color info) vec2 vector with 2 float values, separated by a space (e.g. 0 0 or -10.9 99.1) MOD a string modmask (e.g. SUPER or SUPERSHIFT or SUPER + SHIFT or SUPER and SHIFT or CTRL_SHIFT or empty for none. You are allowed to put any separators you please except for a ,) str a string gradient a gradient, in the form of color color ... [angle] where color is a color (see above) and angle is an angle in degrees, in the format of 123deg e.g. 45deg (e.g. rgba(11ee11ff) rgba(1111eeff) 45deg) Angle is optional and will default to 0deg font_weight an integer between 100 and 1000, or one of the following presets: thin ultralight light semilight book normal medium semibold bold ultrabold heavy ultraheavy Colors
- [Cachix – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Cachix/): Note
This page only applies to the flake package.
You can safely skip this if you use the Nixpkgs package.
The Hyprland flake is not built by Hydra, so it is not cached in cache.nixos.org, like the rest of Nixpkgs.
- [Configuring – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/): This section is all about the configuring (aka ricing) of your Hyprland experience. It links to other pages where necessary, and will walk you through:
The config file Every option and function in it Extending functionality via scripts Some uncommon tips and tricks (e.g. switching layouts, disabling keybinds on-demand, etc) It also contains some sample configurations you can take inspiration from.
Start with the Start Page.
- [Event list – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/Development/Event-list/): These are all the events that can be listened to using Event Hooks.
Complete list Note
M: means std::unordered_map<std::string, std::any> following props are members.
name description argument(s) cancellable tick fired on a tick, meaning once per (1000 / highestMonitorHz) ms nullptr ✕ activeWindow fired on active window change PHLWINDOW ✕ keyboardFocus fired on keyboard focus change. Contains the newly focused surface SP<CWLSurfaceResource> ✕ moveWorkspace fired when a workspace changes its monitor std::vector<std::any>{PHLWORKSPACE, PHLMONITOR} ✕ focusedMon fired on monitor focus change PHLMONITOR ✕ moveWindow fired when a window changes workspace std::vector<std::any>{PHLWINDOW, PHLWORKSPACE} ✕ openLayer fired when a LS is mapped PHLLS ✕ closeLayer fired when a LS is unmapped PHLLS ✕ openWindow fired when a window is mapped PHLWINDOW ✕ closeWindow fired when a window is unmapped PHLWINDOW ✕ windowUpdateRules fired when a window’s rules are updated PHLWINDOW ✕ urgent fired when a window requests urgent PHLWINDOW ✕ preMonitorAdded fired when a monitor is plugged in, before Hyprland handles it PHLMONITOR ✕ monitorAdded fired when a monitor is plugged in, after Hyprland has handled it PHLMONITOR ✕ preMonitorRemoved fired when a monitor is unplugged, before Hyprland handles it PHLMONITOR ✕ monitorRemoved fired when a monitor is unplugged, after Hypralnd has handled it PHLMONITOR ✕ createWorkspace fired when a workspace is created PHLWORKSPACE ✕ destroyWorkspace fired when a workspace is destroyed PHLWORKSPACE ✕ fullscreen fired when a window changes fullscreen state PHLWINDOW ✕ changeFloatingMode fired when a window changes float state PHLWINDOW ✕ workspace fired on a workspace change (only ones explicitly requested by a user) PHLWORKSPACE ✕ submap fired on a submap change std::string ✕ mouseMove fired when the cursor moves. Param is coords. const Vector2D ✔ mouseButton fired on a mouse button press IPointer::SButtonEvent ✔ mouseAxis fired on a mouse axis event M: event:IPointer::SAxisEvent ✔ touchDown fired on a touch down event ITouch::SDownEvent ✔ touchUp fired on a touch up event ITouch::SUpEvent ✔ touchMove fired on a touch motion event ITouch::SMotionEvent ✔ activeLayout fired on a keyboard layout change. String pointer temporary, not guaranteed after execution of the handler finishes. std::vector<std::any>{SP<IKeyboard>, std::string} ✕ preRender fired before a frame for a monitor is about to be rendered PHLMONITOR ✕ screencast fired when the screencopy state of a client changes. Keep in mind there might be multiple separate clients. std::vector<uint64_t>{state, framesInHalfSecond, owner} ✕ render fired at various stages of rendering to allow your plugin to render stuff. See src/SharedDefs.hpp for a list with explanations eRenderStage ✕ windowtitle emitted when a window title changes. PHLWINDOW ✕ configReloaded emitted after the config is reloaded nullptr ✕ preConfigReload emitted before a config reload nullptr ✕ keyPress emitted on a key press M: event:IKeyboard::SButtonEvent, keyboard:SP<IKeyboard> ✔ pin emitted when a window is pinned or unpinned PHLWINDOW ✕ swipeBegin emitted when a touchpad swipe is commenced IPointer::SSwipeBeginEvent ✔ swipeUpdate emitted when a touchpad swipe is updated IPointer::SSwipeUpdateEvent ✔ swipeEnd emitted when a touchpad swipe is ended IPointer::SSwipeEndEvent ✔
- [hyprlauncher – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprlauncher/): Hyprlauncher is a multipurpose and versatile launcher / picker for hyprland. It’s fast, simple, and provides various modules.
Usage Hyprlauncher is always a daemon. Launching it spawns a daemon that will listen to requests. If launched with hyprlauncher -d, it will not open a window for the first launch.
To open hyprlauncher, just bind hyprlauncher to a key.
Configuration Theming Theme follows your hyprtoolkit theme.
- [Keywords – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Keywords/): Keywords are not variables, but “commands” for more advanced configuring. On this page, you will be presented with some that do not deserve their own page.
See the sidebar for more keywords to control binds, animations, monitors, et cetera.
Warning
- [Preconfigured setups – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Getting-Started/Preconfigured-setups/): Don’t want to spend days tinkering with Hyprland to get it just right from scratch, but you’d rather start from a DE-like setting? You’ve found the right place.
Here are a few options to consider:
ML4W ML4W or My Linux 4 Work, is a great DE-like experience out-of-the-box made by Stephan Raabe.
It includes simple gui settings apps, pre-configured feature-rich panels, a welcome app, and more.
- [Wallpapers – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Wallpapers/): Launch your wallpaper utility with exec-once =.
hyprpaper Straight from our oven, hyprpaper is a wallpaper utility from the Hypr Development team. See its usage and config here.
swaybg Great utility if all you want is one simple static wallpaper. Get it here.
wpaperd A slightly more advanced wallpaper daemon with automatic wallpaper changing options and other fancy stuff. GitHub.
- [Advanced – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/Development/Advanced/): This page documents a few advanced things about the Hyprland Plugin API.
Accessing private members If you need access to a private member of a Hyprland class, you can surround includes with a macro which will change the visibility to public. Note that some Hyprland files include the STL which may end up breaking if you attempt this. If you encounter this issue, make sure to include the offending STL import before the section where you include the Hyprland file.
- [Hypr Ecosystem – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/): This wiki section hosts docs for various hypr* projects. See a list here:
Note
These docs always target latest -git branch of respective apps.
Wiki pages Apps/utilities for the user hyprpaper hyprpicker hyprlauncher hypridle hyprlock xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland hyprsysteminfo hyprsunset hyprpolkitagent hyprland-qt-support hyprqt6engine Libraries and other utilities hyprtoolkit hyprcursor hyprutils hyprlang hyprwayland-scanner aquamarine hyprgraphics hyprland-qtutils
- [hypridle – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hypridle/): hypridle is Hyprland’s idle management daemon.
Configuration Configuration is done via the config file at ~/.config/hypr/hypridle.conf. A config file is required; hypridle won’t run without one. To run hypridle at startup, edit hyprland.conf and add: exec-once = hypridle. If Hyprland is started with uwsm, you can use systemctl --user enable --now hypridle.service.
General Variables in the general category:
variable description type default lock_cmd command to run when receiving a dbus lock event (e.g. loginctl lock-session) string empty unlock_cmd command to run when receiving a dbus unlock event (e.g. loginctl unlock-session) string empty on_lock_cmd command to run when the session gets locked by a lock screen app string empty on_unlock_cmd command to run when the session gets unlocked by a lock screen app string empty before_sleep_cmd command to run when receiving a dbus prepare_sleep event string empty after_sleep_cmd command to run when receiving a dbus post prepare_sleep event string empty ignore_dbus_inhibit whether to ignore dbus-sent idle inhibit events (e.g. from firefox) bool false ignore_systemd_inhibit whether to ignore systemd-inhibit --what=idle inhibitors bool false ignore_wayland_inhibit whether to ignore Wayland protocol idle inhibitors bool false inhibit_sleep sleep inhibition mode, 0 - disable, 1 - normal, 2 - auto, 3 - lock notify int 2 Note
- [Hyprland on Other Distros – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Hyprland-on-other-distros/): If you use Nix on distros other than NixOS, you can still use Hyprland.
The best option would be through Home Manager.
However, if Home Manager is not for you, Hyprland can be installed as a normal package.
First, enable flakes, then, once you have flakes working, install Hyprland through nix profile:
From NixpkgsFrom the Flake The easiest method is to get Hyprland directly from Nixpkgs:
- [Monitors – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Monitors/): General The general config of a monitor looks like this:
monitor = name, resolution, position, scale A common example:
monitor = DP-1, 1920x1080@144, 0x0, 1 This will make the monitor on DP-1 a 1920x1080 display, at 144Hz, 0x0 off from the top left corner, with a scale of 1 (unscaled).
- [Screen sharing – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Screen-Sharing/): Screensharing is done through PipeWire on Wayland.
Prerequisites Make sure you have pipewire, wireplumber and xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland installed, enabled and running if you don’t have them yet.
Ensure that the bitdepth set in your configuration matches that of your physical monitor. See Monitors.
Screensharing Read this amazing gist by Bruno Ancona Sala for a great tutorial.
XWayland If your screensharing application is running under XWayland (like Discord or Skype), it can only see other XWayland windows and cannot share an entire screen or a Wayland window.
- [Binds – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Binds/): Basic bind = MODS, key, dispatcher, params for example,
bind = SUPER_SHIFT, Q, exec, firefox will bind opening Firefox to SUPER + SHIFT + Q
- [hyprlock – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprlock/): hyprlock is a simple, yet fast, multi-threaded and GPU-accelerated screen lock for Hyprland.
Warning
Hyprlock does not automatically create a config, and without one, hyprlock will not render anything. But even without a config, your session will get locked and thus Hyprland will cover your session with a black screen. You can unlock normally by typing your password followed by hitting Enter, but you won’t have any visual feedback.
- [Options & Overrides – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Options-Overrides/): You can override the package through the .override or .overrideAttrs mechanisms.
This is easily achievable on NixOS or Home Manager.
Package options These are the default options that the Hyprland package is built with.
These can be changed by setting the appropriate option to true or false.
Package (pkgs.hyprland.override { # or inputs.hyprland.packages.${pkgs.stdenv.hostPlatform.system}.hyprland enableXWayland = true; # whether to enable XWayland withSystemd = true; # whether to build with systemd support }) NixOS & HM modules { programs.hyprland = { # or wayland.windowManager.hyprland enable = true; xwayland.enable = true; }; } Options descriptions XWayland XWayland is enabled by default in the Nix package.
You can disable it either in the package itself, or through the module options.
- [Useful Utilities – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/): This category is dedicated to short tutorials on how to get useful utilities for Hyprland working.
List of Pages Must-Have
Hypr Ecosystem
Status Bars
App Launchers
Wallpapers
Screen Sharing
App Clients
Color Pickers
Clipboard Managers
Hyprland Desktop Portal
File Managers
Other
Systemd startup
- [App launchers – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/App-Launchers/): Hyprlauncher Hyprlauncher is a first-party multipurpose and versatile launcher / picker for Hyprland. GitHub
Wofi Wofi is a GTK-based customizable launcher for Wayland. SourceHut.
Rofi Rofi, a window switcher, application launcher and dmenu replacement. supports Wayland since 2025. GitHub.
bemenu bemenu is a Wayland-native replacement for dmenu. GitHub.
fuzzel Fuzzel is an application launcher for wlroots-based Wayland compositors, similar to rofi’s drun mode. Codeberg
- [Dispatchers – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Dispatchers/): Please keep in mind some layout-specific dispatchers will be listed in the layout pages (See the sidebar).
Parameter explanation Param type Description window a window. Any of the following: class regex (by default, optionally class:), initialclass: initial class regex, title: title regex, initialtitle initial title regex, tag: window tag regex, pid: the pid, address: the address, activewindow an active window, floating the first floating window on the current workspace, tiled the first tiled window on the current workspace workspace see below. direction l r u d left right up down monitor One of: direction, ID, name, current, relative (e.g. +1 or -1) resizeparams relative pixel delta vec2 (e.g. 10 -10), optionally a percentage of the window size (e.g. 20 25%) or exact followed by an exact vec2 (e.g. exact 1280 720), optionally a percentage of the screen size (e.g. exact 50% 50%) floatvalue a relative float delta (e.g -0.2 or +0.2) or exact followed by a the exact float value (e.g. exact 0.5) zheight top or bottom mod SUPER, SUPER_ALT, etc. key g, code:42, 42 or mouse clicks (mouse:272) List of Dispatchers Dispatcher Description Params exec executes a shell command command (supports rules, see below) execr executes a raw shell command (does not support rules) command pass passes the key (with mods) to a specified window. Can be used as a workaround to global keybinds not working on Wayland. window sendshortcut sends specified keys (with mods) to an optionally specified window. Can be used like pass mod, key[, window] sendkeystate Send a key with specific state (down/repeat/up) to a specified window (window must keep focus for events to continue). mod, key, state, window killactive closes (not kills) the active window none forcekillactive kills the active window none closewindow closes a specified window window killwindow kills a specified window window signal sends a signal to the active window signal signalwindow sends a signal to a specified window window,signal, e.g.class:Alacritty,9 workspace changes the workspace workspace movetoworkspace moves the focused window to a workspace workspace OR workspace,window for a specific window movetoworkspacesilent same as above, but doesn’t switch to the workspace workspace OR workspace,window for a specific window togglefloating toggles the current window’s floating state left empty / active for current, or window for a specific window setfloating sets the current window’s floating state to true left empty / active for current, or window for a specific window settiled sets the current window’s floating state to false left empty / active for current, or window for a specific window fullscreen sets the focused window’s fullscreen mode mode action, where mode can be 0 - fullscreen (takes your entire screen) or 1 - maximize (keeps gaps and bar(s)), while action is optional and can be toggle (default), set or unset. fullscreenstate sets the focused window’s fullscreen mode and the one sent to the client internal client action, where internal (the hyprland window) and client (the application) can be -1 - current, 0 - none, 1 - maximize, 2 - fullscreen, 3 - maximize and fullscreen. action is optional and can be toggle (default) or set. dpms sets all monitors’ DPMS status. Do not use with a keybind directly. on, off, or toggle. For specific monitor add monitor name after a space forceidle sets elapsed time for all idle timers, ignoring idle inhibitors. Timers return to normal behavior upon the next activity. Do not use with a keybind directly. floatvalue (number of seconds) pin pins a window (i.e. show it on all workspaces) note: floating only left empty / active for current, or window for a specific window movefocus moves the focus in a direction direction movewindow moves the active window in a direction or to a monitor. For floating windows, moves the window to the screen edge in that direction direction or mon: and a monitor, optionally followed by a space and silent to prevent the focus from moving with the window swapwindow swaps the active window with another window in the given direction or with a specific window direction or window centerwindow center the active window note: floating only none (for monitor center) or 1 (to respect monitor reserved area) resizeactive resizes the active window resizeparams moveactive moves the active window resizeparams resizewindowpixel resizes a selected window resizeparams,window, e.g. 100 100,^(kitty)$ movewindowpixel moves a selected window resizeparams,window cyclenext focuses the next window (on a workspace, if visible is not provided) none (for next) or prev (for previous) additionally tiled for only tiled, floating for only floating. prev tiled is ok. visible for all monitors cycling. visible prev floating is ok. if hist arg provided - focus order will depends on focus history. All other modifiers is also working for it, visible next floating hist is ok. swapnext swaps the focused window with the next window on a workspace none (for next) or prev (for previous) tagwindow apply tag to current or the first window matching tag [window], e.g. +code ^(foot)$, music focuswindow focuses the first window matching window focusmonitor focuses a monitor monitor splitratio changes the split ratio floatvalue movecursortocorner moves the cursor to the corner of the active window direction, 0 - 3, bottom left - 0, bottom right - 1, top right - 2, top left - 3 movecursor moves the cursor to a specified position x y renameworkspace rename a workspace id name, e.g. 2 work exit exits the compositor with no questions asked. none forcerendererreload forces the renderer to reload all resources and outputs none movecurrentworkspacetomonitor Moves the active workspace to a monitor monitor focusworkspaceoncurrentmonitor Focuses the requested workspace on the current monitor, swapping the current workspace to a different monitor if necessary. If you want XMonad/Qtile-style workspace switching, replace workspace in your config with this. workspace moveworkspacetomonitor Moves a workspace to a monitor workspace and a monitor separated by a space swapactiveworkspaces Swaps the active workspaces between two monitors two monitors separated by a space bringactivetotop Deprecated in favor of alterzorder. Brings the current window to the top of the stack none alterzorder Modify the window stack order of the active or specified window. Note: this cannot be used to move a floating window behind a tiled one. zheight[,window] togglespecialworkspace toggles a special workspace on/off none (for the first) or name for named (name has to be a special workspace’s name) focusurgentorlast Focuses the urgent window or the last window none togglegroup toggles the current active window into a group none changegroupactive switches to the next window in a group. b - back, f - forward, or index start at 1 focuscurrentorlast Switch focus from current to previously focused window none lockgroups Locks the groups (all groups will not accept new windows) lock for locking, unlock for unlocking, toggle for toggle lockactivegroup Lock the focused group (the current group will not accept new windows or be moved to other groups) lock for locking, unlock for unlocking, toggle for toggle moveintogroup Moves the active window into a group in a specified direction. No-op if there is no group in the specified direction. direction moveoutofgroup Moves the active window out of a group. No-op if not in a group left empty / active for current, or window for a specific window movewindoworgroup Behaves as moveintogroup if there is a group in the given direction. Behaves as moveoutofgroup if there is no group in the given direction relative to the active group. Otherwise behaves like movewindow. direction movegroupwindow Swaps the active window with the next or previous in a group b for back, anything else for forward denywindowfromgroup Prohibit the active window from becoming or being inserted into group on, off or, toggle setignoregrouplock Temporarily enable or disable binds:ignore_group_lock on, off, or toggle global Executes a Global Shortcut using the GlobalShortcuts portal. See here name submap Change the current mapping group. See Submaps reset or name event Emits a custom event to socket2 in the form of custom>>yourdata the data to send setprop Sets a window property window property value toggleswallow If a window is swallowed by the focused window, unswallows it. Execute again to swallow it back none Warning
- [Plugins – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Plugins/): Hyprland plugins are managed differently on Nix than on other distros.
The most notable change is that hyprpm is unsupported, but we have our own way of building and managing plugins.
Warning
- [Plugins – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Plugins/): Plugins allow users to add extra functionality to Hyprland.
Using plugins Plugin development
- [App clients – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/App-Clients/): Some clients are known for being a massive pain under Wayland. Here are great replacements for them:
Discord WebCord is a Discord client based on the latest Electron, with support for the Wayland Ozone platform, as well as PipeWire screensharing. It has tons of great features and tries not to infringe on the Discord ToS.
Vesktop Like WebCord, Vesktop is a custom Discord client with improved performance and Wayland support. It also has built-in screen sharing, and in addition has support for plugins and custom themes. Vesktop even supports proper audio sharing when you screen share. Note that Vesktop relies on Vencord, a custom Discord client mod, which violates Discord’s terms of service. Use at your own risk.
- [Contributing and Debugging – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/Contributing-and-Debugging/): Everything needed to build and debug Hyprland and other hyprwm programs is included inside the provided devShells.
To use it in the cloned repo, simply run nix develop.
Build in debug mode A debug build is already provided through hyprland.packages.${pkgs.stdenv.hostPlatform.system}.hyprland-debug.
Most hyprwm apps also provide their own -debug versions. For those that don’t, one can build the debug version from the CLI by using overrideAttrs with cmakeBuildType = "debug"; or mesonBuildType = "debug";, depending on the program.
- [Nix – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nix/): To install Hyprland on NixOS, we provide a NixOS and a Home Manager module.
Warning
Required:
NixOS Module: enables critical components needed to run Hyprland properly.
Without this, you may have issues with missing session files in your Display Manager. Optional:
- [Window Rules – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Window-Rules/): Warning
Window rules are case sensitive. (e.g. firefox ≠ Firefox)
As of Hyprland v0.46.0, RegExes need to fully match the window values. For example, in the case of kitty:
- [xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland/): An XDG Desktop Portal is a program that lets other applications communicate with the compositor through D-Bus.
A portal implements certain functionalities, such as opening file pickers or screen sharing.
xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland is Hyprland’s xdg-desktop-portal implementation. It allows for screensharing, global shortcuts, etc.
Note
- [Color pickers – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Color-Pickers/): Color pickers are useful for quickly grabbing a color of something on your screen.
It’s preferred using hyprwm’s own solution, which, so far, seems to be the only one that doesn’t suck.
Hyprpicker Dead simple to use. Launch, click, and you’re done. Also see its wiki page. GitHub
- [NVidia – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Nvidia/): Foreword There is no official Hyprland support for Nvidia hardware. However, many people have had success with the instructions on this page. Please read everything in FULL before asking for help.
There are three potential setups you can have with driver setup on Nvidia.
Entirely proprietary Nvidia drivers, often referred to as “Proprietary Drivers” Entirely proprietary Nvidia drivers, except with the open source kernel modules, referred to as “Open Drivers”. Nouveau open source drivers. A clean-room implementation of Nvidia drivers, referred to simply as “Nouveau”, and not to be confused with the “Open Drivers”. For maximum performance and support with newer cards, running either of the first two setups is recommended as it contains some vital optimisations and power management support for newer GPUs.
- [Best ai agent for test generation](https://keploy.io): Generate unit, api, integration tests for backend using AI coding agent, keploy
- [Workspace Rules – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Workspace-Rules/): You can set workspace rules to achieve workspace-specific behaviors. For instance, you can define a workspace where all windows are drawn without borders or gaps.
For layout-specific rules, see the specific layout page. For example: Master Layout->Workspace Rules.
Workspace selectors Workspaces that have already been created can be targeted by workspace selectors, e.g. r[2-4] w[t1].
Selectors have props separated by a space. No spaces are allowed inside props themselves.
- [Animations – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Animations/): General Animations are declared with the animation keyword.
animation = NAME, ONOFF, SPEED, CURVE [,STYLE] ONOFF use 0 to disable, 1 to enable. Note: if it’s 0, you can omit further args.
- [Clipboard Managers – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Clipboard-Managers/): Starting method: manual (exec-once)
Clipboard Managers provide a convenient way to organize and access previously copied content, including both text and images.
Some common ones include:
cliphist - Utilizes Wayland with wl-clipboard and can store text, images and any binary data.
clipman - Utilizes Wayland with wl-clipboard support and stores text only.
clipvault - Utilizes Wayland with wl-clipboard and can store text, images and any binary data.
Alternative to cliphist with a couple extra features (e.g. max age for entries, min/max entry length).
- [hyprsysteminfo – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprsysteminfo/): hyprsysteminfo is a small GUI application to display your system information, as well as easily copy the hyprland version or system info to your clipboard.
- [IPC – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/IPC/): Hyprland exposes 2 UNIX Sockets, for controlling / getting info about Hyprland via code / bash utilities.
Hyprland Instance Signature (HIS) echo $HYPRLAND_INSTANCE_SIGNATURE $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/hypr/[HIS]/.socket.sock Used for hyprctl-like requests. See the Hyprctl page for commands.
- [Crashes and Bugs – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Crashes-and-Bugs/): Getting the log Firstly, make sure you have enabled logs in the Hyprland config. Set debug:disable_logs to false.
If you are in a TTY, and the Hyprland session that crashed was the last one you launched, the log can be printed with
cat $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/hypr/$(ls -t $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/hypr/ | head -n 1)/hyprland.log if you are in a Hyprland session, and you want the log of the last session, use
- [File Managers – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/File-Managers/): GUI dolphin: File manager by KDE. nautilus: File manager by Gnome. nautilus-admin-gtk4: Open files with elevated privileges. nautilus-image-converter: Resize and rotate images. nautilus-open-any-terminal: Open terminals in selected directory. nemo: File manager by Cinnamon. nemo-fileroller: File archiver extension. nemo-terminal: Embedded terminal window. pcmanfm-qt: File manager by LXQt. pcmanfm: File manager by LXDE. thunar: File manager by XFCE. TUI lf: A filemanager heavily inspired by ranger written in Go. nnn: n³ The Unorthodox terminal file manager. ranger: A VIM-inspired filemanager for the console. superfile: Pretty fancy and modern terminal file manager. yazi: Blazing fast terminal file manager written in Rust, based on async I/O.
- [Gestures – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Gestures/): General Hyprland supports 1:1 gestures for the trackpad for some operations. The basic syntax looks like this:
gesture = fingers, direction, action, options Various actions may have their own options, or none. You can drop the options altogether and end on the action arg if the action takes none.
- [hyprsunset – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprsunset/): hyprsunset is a small utility to provide a blue light filter for your system.
This method is preferred to screen shaders as it will not be captured via recording / screenshots.
hyprsunset also provides a gamma filter, which can be used to adjust perceived display brightness on monitors that do not support software control, or to reduce perceived brightness below the monitor’s minimum.
Warning
- [FAQ – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/FAQ/): Symbol lookup errors If you are getting an error like:
<app>: symbol lookup error: <app>: undefined symbol: <symbol> or
<app>: error while loading shared libraries: <lib>: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory. or sometimes without errors, just crashing at start / randomly
- [hyprpolkitagent – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprpolkitagent/): hyprpolkitagent is a polkit authentication daemon. It is required for GUI applications to be able to request elevated privileges.
If it’s not available in your distro’s repositories, you can either build it from source or use a different agent, e.g. KDE’s one.
Usage Add exec-once = systemctl --user start hyprpolkitagent to your Hyprland config and restart hyprland. (obviously change that to whatever you are using if you are not using the hypr one)
- [Other – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Other/): Here you will find links to some other projects that may not fit into any of the above categories.
Workspace management hyprsome by sopa0: Awesome-like workspaces for Hyprland.
Keyboard layout management hyprland-per-window-layout by MahouShoujoMivutilde and coffebar: Per window keyboard layouts for Hyprland.
Editor support for config files HyprLS by gwennlbh: A LSP server to provide auto-completion and more for Hyprland’s configuration files in neovim, VS Code & others
- [Tearing – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Tearing/): Screen tearing is used to reduce latency and/or jitter in games.
Enabling tearing To enable tearing:
Set general:allow_tearing to true. This is a “master toggle” Add an immediate windowrule to your game of choice. This makes sure that Hyprland will tear it. Warning
- [Connect – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Connect/): These are the links to official Hyprland-related spaces or profiles:
Profiles Twitter: twitter.com/hyprwm
Spaces Discord: discord.gg/hQ9XvMUjjr Matrix: #hyprland:matrix.vaxry.net
Other hyprland.org git instance: code.hyprland.org Hyprland website: hyprland.org
- [Dwindle Layout – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Dwindle-Layout/): Dwindle is a BSPWM-like layout, where every window on a workspace is a member of a binary tree.
Quirks Dwindle splits are NOT PERMANENT. The split is determined dynamically with the W/H ratio of the parent node. If W > H, it’s side-by-side. If H > W, it’s top-and-bottom. You can make them permanent by enabling preserve_split.
Config category name: dwindle
name description type default pseudotile enable pseudotiling. Pseudotiled windows retain their floating size when tiled. bool false force_split 0 -> split follows mouse, 1 -> always split to the left (new = left or top) 2 -> always split to the right (new = right or bottom) int 0 preserve_split if enabled, the split (side/top) will not change regardless of what happens to the container. bool false smart_split if enabled, allows a more precise control over the window split direction based on the cursor’s position. The window is conceptually divided into four triangles, and cursor’s triangle determines the split direction. This feature also turns on preserve_split. bool false smart_resizing if enabled, resizing direction will be determined by the mouse’s position on the window (nearest to which corner). Else, it is based on the window’s tiling position. bool true permanent_direction_override if enabled, makes the preselect direction persist until either this mode is turned off, another direction is specified, or a non-direction is specified (anything other than l,r,u/t,d/b) bool false special_scale_factor specifies the scale factor of windows on the special workspace [0 - 1] float 1 split_width_multiplier specifies the auto-split width multiplier. Multiplying window size is useful on widescreen monitors where window W > H even after several splits. float 1.0 use_active_for_splits whether to prefer the active window or the mouse position for splits bool true default_split_ratio the default split ratio on window open. 1 means even 50/50 split. [0.1 - 1.9] float 1.0 split_bias specifies which window will receive the split ratio. 0 -> directional (the top or left window), 1 -> the current window int 0 precise_mouse_move bindm movewindow will drop the window more precisely depending on where your mouse is. bool false single_window_aspect_ratio whenever only a single window is shown on a screen, add padding so that it conforms to the specified aspect ratio. A value like 4 3 on a 16:9 screen will make it a 4:3 window in the middle with padding to the sides. Vec2D 0 0 single_window_aspect_ratio_tolerance sets a tolerance for single_window_aspect_ratio, so that if the padding that would have been added is smaller than the specified fraction of the height or width of the screen, it will not attempt to adjust the window size [0 - 1] int 0.1 Bind Dispatchers dispatcher description params pseudo toggles the given window’s pseudo mode left empty / active for current, or window for a specific window Layout messages Dispatcher layoutmsg params:
- [Hypr Ecosystem – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Hypr-Ecosystem/): The hypr ecosystem is a collection of apps developed by HyprWM, that are designed for Hyprland and to integrate with it as nicely as possible.
See Hypr Ecosystem.
- [hyprland-qt-support – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprland-qt-support/): hyprland-qt-support provides a QML style for hypr* qt6 apps.
Configuration The config file is located in ~/.config/hypr/application-style.conf.
variable description type default roundness how much to round UI elements, 0 - 3 int 1 border_width how wide the border should be around UI elements, 0 - 3 int 1 reduce_motion reduce motion of elements (transitions, hover effects, etc) bool false
- [Systemd startup – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Useful-Utilities/Systemd-start/): UWSM Universal Wayland Session Manager wraps standalone Wayland compositors into a set of Systemd units and provides robust session management including environment, XDG autostart support, bi-directional binding with login session, and clean shutdown. Please note uwsm is for advanced users and has its issues and additional quirks.
Installation Arch uwsm is available in Arch official repositories.
- [Contributing and Debugging – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Contributing-and-Debugging/): PR, code styling and code FAQs are here
For issues, please see the guidelines
Build in debug mode Required packages See manual build for deps.
Recommended, CMake Install the VSCode C/C++ and CMake Tools extensions and use that.
I’ve attached a example/launch.json that you can copy to your .vscode/ folder in the repo root.
With that, you can build in debug, go to the debugging tab and hit (gdb) Launch.
- [hyprqt6engine – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprqt6engine/): hyprqt6engine provides a theme for QT6 apps. It’s a replacement for qt6ct, compatible with KDE Apps / KColorScheme.
Usage Install, then set QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME=hyprqt6engine. You can set this as env= in Hyprland, or in /etc/environment for setting it system-wide.
Configuration The config file is located in ~/.config/hypr/hyprqt6engine.conf.
Theme category theme:
variable description type default color_scheme the full path to a color scheme. Can be a qt6ct theme, or a KColorScheme. Empty for defaults. string empty icon_theme name of an icon theme to use string empty style widget style to use, e.g. Fusion or kvantum-dark. string Fusion font_fixed font family for the fixed width font string monospace font_fixed_size font size for the fixed width font int 11 font font family for the regular font string Sans Serif font_size font size for the regular font int 11 Misc category misc:
- [Master Layout – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Master-Layout/): The master layout makes one (or more) window(s) be the “master”, taking (by default) the left part of the screen, and tiles the rest on the right. You can change the orientation on a per-workspace basis if you want to use anything other than the default left/right split.
Config category name master
name description type default allow_small_split enable adding additional master windows in a horizontal split style bool false special_scale_factor the scale of the special workspace windows. [0.0 - 1.0] float 1 mfact the size as a percentage of the master window, for example mfact = 0.70 would mean 70% of the screen will be the master window, and 30% the slave [0.0 - 1.0] floatvalue 0.55 new_status master: new window becomes master; slave: new windows are added to slave stack; inherit: inherit from focused window string slave new_on_top whether a newly open window should be on the top of the stack bool false new_on_active before, after: place new window relative to the focused window; none: place new window according to the value of new_on_top. string none orientation default placement of the master area, can be left, right, top, bottom or center string left inherit_fullscreen inherit fullscreen status when cycling/swapping to another window (e.g. monocle layout) bool true slave_count_for_center_master when using orientation=center, make the master window centered only when at least this many slave windows are open. (Set 0 to always_center_master) int 2 center_master_fallback Set fallback for center master when slaves are less than slave_count_for_center_master, can be left ,right ,top ,bottom string left smart_resizing if enabled, resizing direction will be determined by the mouse’s position on the window (nearest to which corner). Else, it is based on the window’s tiling position. bool true drop_at_cursor when enabled, dragging and dropping windows will put them at the cursor position. Otherwise, when dropped at the stack side, they will go to the top/bottom of the stack depending on new_on_top. bool true always_keep_position whether to keep the master window in its configured position when there are no slave windows bool false Dispatchers layoutmsg commands:
- [Permissions – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Permissions/): If you have hyprland-qtutils installed, you can make use of Hyprland’s built-in permission system.
For now, it only has a few permissions, but it might include more in the future.
Permissions Permissions work a bit like Android ones. If an app tries to do something sensitive with the compositor (Hyprland), Hyprland will pop up a notification asking you if you want to let it do that.
- [Using hyprctl – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Using-hyprctl/): hyprctl is a utility for controlling some parts of the compositor from a CLI or a script. It should automatically be installed along with Hyprland.
Warning
hyprctl calls will be dispatched by the compositor synchronously, meaning any spam of the utility will cause slowdowns. It’s recommended to use --batch for many control calls, and limiting the amount of info calls.
- [Expanding functionality – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Expanding-functionality/): Hyprland exposes two powerful sockets for you to use.
The first, socket1, can be fully controlled with hyprctl, see its usage here.
The second, socket2, sends events for certain changes / actions and can be used to react to different events. See its description here.
Example script This bash script will change the outer gaps to 20 if the currently focused monitor is DP-1, and 30 otherwise.
- [XWayland – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/XWayland/): XWayland is the bridging mechanism between legacy Xorg programs and Wayland compositors.
HiDPI XWayland XWayland currently looks pixelated on HiDPI screens, due to Xorg’s inability to scale.
This problem is mitigated by the xwayland:force_zero_scaling option, which forces XWayland windows not to be scaled.
This will get rid of the pixelated look, but will not scale applications properly. To do this, each toolkit has its own mechanism.
- [Environment variables – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Environment-variables/): Note
uwsm users should avoid placing environment variables in the hyprland.conf file.
Instead, use ~/.config/uwsm/env for theming, xcursor, Nvidia and toolkit variables, and ~/.config/uwsm/env-hyprland for HYPR* and AQ_* variables.
The format is export KEY=VAL.
- [Multi-GPU – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Multi-GPU/): General If your host machine uses multiple GPUs, you may want to use one GPU for rendering all the elements for Hyprland including windows, animations, and another for hardware acceleration for certain applications, etc.
This setup is very common in the likes of gaming laptops, GPU-passthrough (without VFIO) capable hosts, and if you have multiple GPUs in general.
Detecting GPUs For this case, the writer is taking the example of their laptop.
- [Uncommon tips & tricks – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Uncommon-tips--tricks/): Switchable keyboard layouts The easiest way to accomplish this is to set this using XKB settings, for example:
input { kb_layout = us,cz kb_variant = ,qwerty kb_options = grp:alt_shift_toggle } Variants are set per layout.
- [Example configurations – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Example-configurations/): This page houses links to a few repositories with beautiful Hyprland configurations for you to get inspired from or learn how to configure Hyprland from a more tangible example.
Warning
These configurations are popular and have many people using them. PRs that add more configurations will not be merged.
- [Performance – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Configuring/Performance/): This page documents known tricks and fixes to boost performance if by any chance you stumble upon problems or you do not care that much about animations.
Fractional scaling Wayland fractional scaling is a lot better than before, but it is not perfect. Some applications do not support it yet or the support is experimental at best. If you have problems with your graphics card having high usage or Hyprland feeling laggy, try setting the scaling to integer numbers such as 1 or 2 like in this example monitor=,preferred,auto,2.
- [Development – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprtoolkit/development/): Hyprtoolkit is a pure C++ toolkit. It relies on modern C++ in the Hyprland style (with hyprutils, etc).
It’s recommended you are familiar with C++ before developing an app.
Getting started If you prefer living off of examples, see the tests/ directory in the hyprtoolkit repo.
Start by creating a backend and opening a window:
// in this example we are doing this to skip Hyprtoolkit:: using namespace Hyprtoolkit; auto backend = CBackend::create(); auto window = CWindowBuilder::begin()->appTitle("Hello")->appClass("hyprtoolkit")->commence(); this will create (but not yet open) a window handle for you.
- [hyprtoolkit – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprtoolkit/): Hyprtoolkit is a GUI toolkit for developing applications that run natively on Wayland. It’s specifically made for Hyprland’s needs, but will generally run on any Wayland compositor that supports modern standards.
For developer docs, see development
Configuration The general toolkit config is at ~/.config/hypr/hyprtoolkit.conf. It contains theming and some minor adjustments.
variable description type default background background color color FF181818 base base color color FF202020 text text color color FFDADADA alternate_base alternative base color color FF272727 bright_text bright text color color FFFFDEDE accent accent color color FF00FFCC accent_secondary secondary accent color color FF0099F0 h1_size font size for H1 int 19 h2_size font size for H2 int 15 h3_size font size for H3 int 13 font_size font size for regular text elements int 11 small_font_size font size for small text elements int 10 icon_theme name of the icon theme to use, empty for “the first found” string empty font_family name of the font family to use string Sans Serif font_family_monospace name of the monospace font family to use string monospace
- [hyprcursor – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprcursor/): hyprcursor is a new cursor theme format that has many advantages over the widely used xcursor.
Hyprcursor themes You will need to obtain those yourself. If you are on the Discord server, see #hyprcursor-themes.
Put your theme(s) in ~/.local/share/icons or ~/.icons
Warning
- [hyprutils – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprutils/): hyprutils is a library providing shared implementations of commonly used types across the hypr* ecosystem.
- [hyprlang – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprlang/): hyprlang is a library that implements parsing for the hypr configuration language.
Syntax Line style Every config line is a command followed by a value.
COMMAND = VALUE The command can be a variable, or a special keyword (those are defined by the app you are using)
- [hyprwayland-scanner – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprwayland-scanner/): hyprwayland-scanner, also called hw-s, is a utility to generate sources and headers for wayland protocol specifications.
It is similar to wayland-scanner, but instead of C, it generates neat and safe C++ implementations.
- [aquamarine – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/aquamarine/): aquamarine is a very light linux rendering backend library.
It is not a replacement or competitor to any other wayland compositor library (e.g. wlroots, libweston), instead implementing only the low-level KMS/DRM/etc rendering backends.
Configuration Configuration options are passed via environment variables starting with AQ_ to an app that uses aquamarine, e.g. Hyprland.
Variables name description AQ_TRACE Enables trace (very, very verbose) logging. AQ_DRM_DEVICES A colon-separated list of DRM devices (aka. GPUs) to use. The first will be used as primary. Example: /dev/dri/card1:/dev/dri/card0. AQ_NO_MODIFIERS Disables modifiers for DRM buffers. AQ_MGPU_NO_EXPLICIT Disables passing of explicit fences for multi-gpu scanouts AQ_NO_ATOMIC (HEAVILY NOT RECOMMENDED) Disable atomic modesetting. Documentation Documentation will come soon.
- [hyprgraphics – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprgraphics/): hyprgraphics is a library providing shared implementations of some utilities relating to graphics and resources, like loading images or color calculations.
- [hyprland-qtutils – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Hypr-Ecosystem/hyprland-qtutils/): hyprland-qtutils is a small bunch of utility applications that hyprland might invoke. These are stuff like dialogs or popups.
- [Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/): The documentation for Hyprland.
- [Categories – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/categories/)
- [Issue Guidelines – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Contributing-and-Debugging/Issue-Guidelines/): Due to the influx of low quality or incomprehensible issues, we prefer to begin possible bug reports or feature requests as discussions, and elevate them to issues if they can be confirmed by a member to be relevant, and once enough information about the problem has been gathered.
Why?
- [PR Guidelines – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/Contributing-and-Debugging/PR-Guidelines/): PR Requirements Clean, not hacky code Described changes and why they were there Following the style (see below) Code Style Please read this if you are submitting a PR, in order to minimize the amount of style nits received, and save the time for the maintainers.
Before you submit Make sure you ran clang-format: clang-format -i src/**/*{cpp,hpp}
- [Tags – Hyprland Wiki](https://wiki.hypr.land/tags/)
